Welcome back.
Let's talk about our first big word when it comes to functional programming.
It's called in-depth pittance.
I know it's a hard one to say but what does it mean.
Well let me show you with an example if I have a function we'll call it not good.
And that's not good function is going to return math dot random if I call this function and I click
Run well I get a random number between 0 and 1 and what independence means is that given the same inputs
in this case we have no inputs or you know what.
Let's just add the number a number in here and click Run.
All right.
Every time we get something different.
If I do five no matter what I still get something different.
The idea of impotence is a function that always returns or does what we expected to do.
Now that sounds familiar with what we've just talked about about pure functions but it's a little bit
different because if I do console dot log five here or just num here and I click run no matter how many
times I click Run I always get five.
This function that console logs five to the outside world is still in component because multiple polls
is still going to display the same text even though it's not pure because while it communicates with
the outside world.
Another thing that can be independent for example is deleting a user from a database.
When we delete a user from a database.
Well I can delete that person once but if I keep calling the function to delete that user Well it's
going to return the same result.
It's going to return me that empty field where there's no more user and things like in components.
You see a lot in API is like EDP get requests I can do an API call and I expect that that API call given
some sort of parameter is always going to return the same results.
Even though we are communicating with the outside world.
Now why did I teach you this.
Why can't we just say everything should be pure.
What do we care about in opponents.
Well because this idea of being able to call something a thousand times and always giving you the same
result is extremely valuable when it comes to things like parallel and distributed computation because
it makes our code predictable by the way.
Another interesting feature of independents is this idea of being able to call yourself over and over
and over or inside of yourself and you still get the same result.
For example the math dot a B.S. or absolute which if I do minus 50 while a B.S. not a B.S. I'll get
a positive number or an absolute number every time if in here I call math dot absolute again I get 50
again.
So no matter what.
Calling this function over and over over inside of itself always returns the same thing.
This is pretty amazing.
And with that in mind we have these guarantees of code being predictable.
All right.
Independents we got there right.
So let's move on to the next word.